Welcome to NITOS Portal.

Here you can find the implementation of the Experimental Portal for the NITOS research facility.

We deals with the designation of the Data Base and the Registration - Sign in/out mechanism that gives the opportunity to the experimenter, to create a new account and start using the experimentation tools.

We also constucts the Scheduler tool that gives the opportunity to the experimenter to discover the available resources (nodes, channels) for a given date, reserve a resource, and discover the main characteristics of every resource. In addition, we introduce the Quick Reservation tool, an easy way for reserving resources. In My Reservations tool, the user can observe his/her reservation and cancel a reservation. The Node Status tool is responsible for showing the status of every node reserved by a user. Moreover, a user can change the status of a node, by turning it ON/OFF or by Reseting it. Another feature of the NITOS Portal is that it automatically detects the user time zone and displays all information accordingly.

Installing Portal

1.Install Rails 

  $ gem install rails --version 4.1.1

To check your Rails installation version, run:

  $ rails -v
  Rails 4.1.1

If you’re running Linux, you might have to install a couple of other packages at this point:

  $ sudo apt-get install libxslt-dev libxml2-dev libsqlite3-dev # Linux only

or

  $ sudo yum install libxslt-devel libxml2-devel libsqlite3-devel


2.Download/Clone Portal 

After finishing with Installations you should clone the project:

  $ git clone https://github.com/NitLab/NITOS-Portal.git

Alternately you can download the app as ZIP.

Install Gems

The next step is to open a terminal and run:

  $ /bin/bash --login
  $ cd nitos-portal

Next you have to install the gems:

  $ bundle install  

3.Install MYSQL

Install running on the console: 

  $  sudo apt-get install mysql-client-5.5 mysql-server-5.5
    
During the installer it asks for a mysql root-user password (type for ex. admin)
Try to start and stop the mysql server using the commands:

  $  sudo service mysql stop 
  $  sudo service mysql start


4.Database settings on the new rails application

Open the file nitos-portal/config/database.yml  and put your 
mysql root-user password for the test and development database

You must leave a blank character after the 'password' keybord. So you should get something like this:

adapter: mysql2

encoding: utf8

reconnect: false

database: myapp_development

pool: 5

username: root

password: your-password

socket: /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock


5.Create the Blank Database

Start the mysql database using:

  $ sudo service mysql start

Put the console in nitos-portal folder and run:

  $  rake db:create

If creates the db is correctly creates, it replies with anything...
It could be useful to check if the db is created or not: do like this:

  $   mysql -u root -p   // open mysql console
  $ Enter password: type-your-password
  mysql> show databases;

and you should find the nitos-portal_test and nitos-portal_development db.
  mysql> \q    // close mysql console

Some useful MYSQL commands


    $   mysql -u root -p                    // open mysql console
    mysql> show databases;           //show all the databases
    mysql> use  database-name;     //select a database
    mysql> show tables;                 //show the tables of the selected db
    mysql> describe  table-name;   //show the attributes of the selected table
    If you need to change the mysql root password type this command:
        $  mysqladmin -u root -p password enter-your-new-password
        Enter password: enter-your-old-password


6.Run NITOSPortal 

Put the console in nitos-portal folder and run 

  $ rails s

